
# get_next_line

```get_next_line``` is a project that provides a function able to ***read a file one line at a time***.
Each call returns the next line from the file until the end is reached.
The function reads the file in small parts, builds each line, and keeps any remaining data for the next call.

## **Features**
  
### *Main Features*

- The function can read a file one line at a time, in the correct order.

- It uses a buffer, which means it reads the file little by little instead of all at once.

- If some data is read but not yet used to form a full line, it is saved and used on the next call.

### *Bonus Features*

- The function can read from several files at the same time, without mixing their data.

- Each file has its own buffer, so reading one file does not affect the others.

## **Instructions**

**1. Clone the repository**
```bash
  git clone <repo_url>
  cd get_next_line
```
**2. Compile the project**

***Mandatory part***
```bash
  cc -Wall -Wextraa -Werror get_next_line.c get_next_line_utils.c main.c -o gnl
```
you can also define *BUFFER_SIZE* at compilation time (a buffer size of 42 is used as an example)
```bash
  cc -Wall -Wextra -Werror -D BUFFER_SIZE=42 get_next_line.c get_next_line_utils.c main.c -o gnl
```
***Bonus part***
```bash
  cc -Wall -Wextra -Werror -D BUFFER_SIZE=42 get_next_line_bonus.c get_next_line_utils_bonus.c main.c -o gnl_bonus
```
**3. Run the program**
```bash
./gnl
```
or for bonus 
```bash
./gnl_bonus
```



## **Resources**

 - I read this article https://medium.com/@lannur-s/gnl-c3cff1ee552b to understand the algorithm, but my code is totally different. 
 - https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/c/static-variables-in-c/
 
**AI USAGE**\
Some assistance was taken from ChatGPT to clarify the project requirements, understand the logic behind the ``` get_next_line ``` algorithm, and help write clear and simple sentences and to improve the oveall readability of the documentation and ```README```.
NO part of the implimentation was generated by AI; all code was written manually.

## **Algorithm Explanation**

    The algorithm is based on three important ideas:

        1. Read progressively using BUFFER_SIZE
        2. Store remaining data in a static variable
        3. Return exactly one line per call

    A static string called 'res' is used to keep data between
    function calls.

### **How the Algorithm Works**
***1. Search for a New Line***
```
    found_new_line(res)
```
- Checks if res contains ```\n```

- If found, returns the position just after ```\n```

- If not found, returns ```-1```

***2. Read From the File Descriptor***
```
read_line(fd, res)

```
- Allocates a temporary buffer

- Reads from the file descriptor

- Appends the read data to res

- Stops reading when:

    - A newline is found

    - EOF is reached

    - An error occurs
***3. Extract the Line***
```
line = ft_substr(res, 0, i)

```
- If a newline exists -> extract up to ```\n```

- If no newline -> extract the whole remaining string
This line is returned by ```get_next_line```

***4. Update the Static Buffer***
```
update_res(res, i)

```
- Removes the returned line from res

- Keeps the remaining characters

- Frees old memory to avoid leaks

The rest of the data will be used in the next call.


## **Lessons Learned**

This project really helped me understand how reading files works in C.
I learned how to use static variables and how important it is to manage memory carefully to avoid leaks.


